* Amid China cyberattacks, govt issues SOP for staff


NEW DELHI: Facing repeated cyberattack attempts from China, the government has decided to tighten its vigil with employees across ministries and public sector units (PSUs) being asked to follow a standard operating protocol — including basic hygiene such as switching off computers, signing out of emails and updating passwords — or face disciplinary action.
Official sources said that the AIIMS cyberattack is suspected to have resulted from an employee not following these steps. “Often, employees do not sign out of their emails or switch off their machines and we believe that something like this may have happened at AIIMS too. But we have managed to get the system up and running again,” a source told TOI, adding that other systems were not compromised.




In recent months, from the power grid to the banking system, there have been multiple cyberattacks, which have been thwarted by Indian authorities, with AIIMS being one of the breaches. Sources said most of the attacks are seen to be the handiwork of Chinese hackers, who often operate as “sleeper cells” using the computers of Indian users.
While the government has a standard operating procedure, listing out close to two dozen steps, it has now decided to enforce it more strictly and is even contemplating action against errant employees. Typically, in government, breach of protocol results in disciplinary action, which could be related to dereliction of duty. Besides, some other provisions could also be invoked in case of serious failure on part of employees, sources indicated.
Sources said the ministry of home affairs along with the ministries of communication and IT and the National Security Council secretariat were keeping close tabs on the emerging situation and seeking to ensure that the vulnerabilities were checked.
The frequency of such attacks has increased in recent months with the Central Depository Services Ltd (CDSL) being among agencies where some of the computers are suspected to have detected the presence of malware, although the depository maintained that data was not compromised.
A report by CERT-IN has estimated a 51% jump in ransomware incidents that were reported during the first half of 2022. While a majority of the attacks were on data centres, IT sector and manufacturing and finance, critical infrastructure including oil and gas, transport, power were also hit.
Separately, cyber security firm Norton said in a report that India had faced over 18 million cyber threats during the first quarter of 2022. Several Indian agencies have built multiple firewalls to protect themselves against cyberattacks but irresponsible behaviour by stakeholders and employees often expose them to risks.